# **Vehicle Detection**

## Writeup

---

**Vehicle Detection Project**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:

* Perform a Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG) feature extraction on a labeled training set of images and train a classifier Linear SVM classifier
* Optionally, you can also apply a color transform and append binned color features, as well as histograms of color, to your HOG feature vector.
* Note: for those first two steps don't forget to normalize your features and randomize a selection for training and testing.
* Implement a sliding-window technique and use your trained classifier to search for vehicles in images.
* Run your pipeline on a video stream (start with the test_video.mp4 and later implement on full project_video.mp4) and create a heat map of recurring detections frame by frame to reject outliers and follow detected vehicles.
* Estimate a bounding box for vehicles detected.


[//]: # (Image References)

[image1]: ./examples/car_not_car.png
---

### Code overview

The core functions used in this project are combined into `vdetect.py` Python module. `scaler.py` contains the `FeatureScaler` class used to perform scaling on different sets of features extracted from an image. `train.py` is a script that performs training of a number of classifiers on the vehicles/non-hevicles data. All the resulting media files are generated by the `genmedia.py` script.

### Feature engineering

This project uses a feature preparation method (see `vdetect.extract_features`) that combines three sets of features, extracted from a (64, 64, 3) image:

* HOG features, extracted from the grayscale transformation of the original image
* Binned version of the the grayscale transformation of the original image: (64, 64) -> (32, 32) -> flatten
* Combined histogram of color channels: R, G, B, H (of HLS), U (of LUV)

Upon extraction, the three feature sets are returned separately as values in a dictionary. Further, in `vdetect.prepare_train_test_data_single_class` and `vdetect.prepare_train_test_data`, dictionaries from individual images are combined together, shuffled, and separated into training and testing sets. To perform scaling on each feature sets separately, the `scaler.FeatureScaler` class is used. When constructed, `FeatureScaler` accepts a dictionary of training sets and fits a `sklearn.preprocessing.StandardScaler` on each feature set.

### Sliding window

The sliding window strategy applied in this project is based on a series of sliding window loops with windows of varying sizes over different search area.

Initially, the main region of interest (ROI) is chosen in the middle of the image by discarding the top and the bottom parts of an image. As such, the only the road projection is further searched.

[...]


### Machine learning

To detect vehicles in the road images, several supervised classifiers (implemented in Scikit-learn) are trained given the vehicle/non-vehicle data, which was fed through the feature extraction routine, described earlier. The effects of different classifiers and their parameterization on the test images were evaluated graphically, by visual analysis of the heatmaps.

### Vehicles detection
